# rcons.exe.pod
#
# Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Accenture. All rights reserved.
# This component and the accompanying materials are made available
# under the terms of the "Eclipse Public License v1.0"
# which accompanies this distribution, and is available
# at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html".
#
# Initial Contributors:
# Accenture - Initial contribution
#

__END__

=head1 C<rcons.exe> - The Win32 Server Implementation

=head2 Introduction

C<rcons.exe> is the server side implementation of C<rcons>. It is a Win32 executable.

=head2 Installation

A build of F<fshell> puts F<rcons.exe> into F<\epoc32\tools>. No further installation is necessary.

=head2 Configuration

The most significant aspect of the server's configuration is the TCP port number that it listens on for in-coming connections from console clients. This must match the client side configuration. It can be changed on the server side using the menu C<File | Preferences | Listen on port:>. By default it is set to 8086.

Something else to bear in mind is that if you have a firewall running on the network interface between your PC and your Symbian OS device, that will need to allow incomming connections on the relevant TCP port through. Note though that mRouter (Symbian's PC connectivity transport) will happily forward connections to TCP servers running on the same PC as itself, so if you're using mRouter as your transport firewalls shouldn't be a problem.

=head1 Copyright

Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Accenture. All rights reserved.

=cut
