# rcons.pod
#
# Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Accenture. All rights reserved.
# This component and the accompanying materials are made available
# under the terms of the "Eclipse Public License v1.0"
# which accompanies this distribution, and is available
# at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html".
#
# Initial Contributors:
# Accenture - Initial contribution
#

__END__

=head1 F<rcons> - A Remote Console for Symbian OS

=head2 Introduction

F<rcons> has a client / server implementation. The client side (L<rcons.dll|rcons.dll>) runs on Symbian OS and the server side (L<rcons.exe|rcons.exe>) runs on a Win32 PC. The two sides communicate with one another via a pair of TCP/IP connections. The net result is that when something on the Symbian OS side creates a console, instead of a console window appearing on the Symbian OS hosted screen, a console window appears on the PC. This is a conventional Windows window that can be typed into using the PC's keyboard, resized using the PC's mouse, etc.

In order for the client and server sides to communicate with one another, some kind of TCP transport needs to be in place. However, in most cases you shouldn't need to worry about the details of configuring a suitable transport as that should have already been done in your fshell distribution (assuming you're using supported hardware).

The remainder of this documentation describes how to manually install and configure F<rcons>.

=head2 Installation

The PC side (L<rcons.exe|rcons.exe>) should already be installed in your development environment (assuming you did a full build of F<fshell>). Running it is simply as case of launching F<\epoc32\tools\rcons.exe>. This should create a new window that states the TCP port that the program is listening for connections on. Provided this matches the client side configuration, not further configuration of the server is necessary. For details of how to use the server side, see L<rcons.exe|rcons.exe>.

There are more choices to be made regarding the installation of the Symbian OS side. See L<rcons.dll|rcons.dll> for more details, however by default C<fshell> installs and configures L<rcons.dll|rcons.dll> appropriately for most peoples needs. It is recommended that you try the default C<fshell> installation first, and only worry about different configurations if you need more flexibility.

=head2 See Also

L<rcons.exe|rcons.exe>

L<rcons.dll|rcons.dll>

L<fshell|fshell>

=head1 Copyright

Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Accenture. All rights reserved.

=cut
