# guicons_todo.pod
#
# Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Accenture. All rights reserved.
# This component and the accompanying materials are made available
# under the terms of the "Eclipse Public License v1.0"
# which accompanies this distribution, and is available
# at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html".
#
# Initial Contributors:
# Accenture - Initial contribution
#

__END__

=head1 guicons todo list

=over 5

=item *

Write some user documentation. This should include details on how fonts work and how to create your own.

=item *

Configuration. This includes:

=over

=item *

Configuring the console using the console title, for example:

	fshell --console guicons --console-title "font=c:\myfont.gif;exe=custom_guicons_app.exe;servername=myguicons;title=fshell console"

or similar.

=item *

Save configuration options in guicons application (currently, there is only the line/interactive mode setting, there will be more...)

=back

=item *

Allow changing of the font after a console is created (by selecting a new image file using a dialog)

=item *

In the line editor, when the text is injected into the console, dont' remove it but instead justr highlight it. Then, you can easily inject it again, or start typing to replace it.

=item *

Copy, paste support

=item *

Option to hide the line editor on devices that have a full keyboard.

=back

=head1 Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Accenture. All rights reserved.

=cut
